# Uber-and-Lyft-Cab-Data-Analysis-and-Fare-Prediction
## Project Overview
The objective of the project is to perform data visulalization techniques to understand the insight of the data. Machine learning often required to getting the understanding of the data and its insights. This project aims apply various Python tools to get a visual understanding of the data and clean it to make it ready to apply machine learning opertation on it. In this project for predicting the cab fare I have used a machine learning model called 'Linear Regression'. The cab dataset is downloaded from kaggle. 
## Implementation
I have retrieved the cab and weather data from kaggle. Since weather conditions also make difference on the cab fare this is the reason why I have used both cab and weahter data. After concatinating both datasets, features namely 'distance', 'cab_type', 'time_stamp', 'destination', 'source', 'price', 'surge_multiplier', 'id', 'product_id', 'name', 'datetime', 'temp', 'location', 'clouds', 'pressure', 'rain', 'humidity', 'wind', 'date_time', 'day', have taken into consideration.
When a csv file is imported and a Data Frame is made, the Date time objects in the file are read as a string object rather a Date Time object and Hence it’s very tough to perform operations like Time difference on a string rather a Date Time object. Pandas to_datetime() method helps to convert string Date time into Python Date time object.
After fitting the linear regression model I have used R-squared value which is also known as the coefficient of determination, or for multiple regression, the coefficient of multiple determination. The R-squared value lies between 0 to 1 (0%-100%) with a larger value representing a better fit.
